.TH APULSE 1 2017-10-23 "apulse" "apulse"
.SH NAME
.B apulse
\- The PulseAudio emulator for \fBALSA\fR
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B apulse
.RI <program-name>
.RI [program-parameters]...

.SH DESCRIPTION

The program provides an alternative partial implementation of the PulseAudio
API. It consists of a loader script and a number of shared libraries with the
same names as from original PulseAudio, so applications could dynamically load
them and think they are talking to PulseAudio. Internally, no separate sound
mixing daemon is used. Instead, \fBapulse\fR relies on \fBALSA\fR's \fBdmix\fR,
\fBdsnoop\fR, and \fBplug\fR plugins to handle multiple sound sources and
capture streams running at the same time. \fBdmix\fR plugin muxes multiple
playback streams; \fBdsnoop\fR plugin allow multiple applications to capture
from a single microphone; and \fBplug\fR plugin transparently converts audio
between various sample formats, sample rates and channel numbers. For more than
a decade now, \fBALSA\fR comes with these plugins enabled and configured by
default.

\fBapulse\fR wasn't designed to be a drop-in replacement of PulseAudio. It's
pointless, since that will be just reimplementation of original PulseAudio,
with the same client-daemon architecture, required by the complete feature set.
Instead, only parts of the API that are crucial to specific applications are
implemented. That's why there is a loader script, named \fBapulse\fR. It
updates value of LD_LIBRARY_PATH environment variable to point also to the
directory where \fBapulse\fR's libraries are installed, making them available
to the application.

Name comes from names of both \fBALSA\fR and PulseAudio. As \fBaoss\fR was a
compatibility layer between OSS programs and \fBALSA\fR, \fBapulse\fR was
designed to be compatibility layer between PulseAudio applications and
\fBALSA\fR.

.SH RETURN VALUE

\fBapulse\fR is a simple shell wrapper script that calls \fBexec\fR on the
program given in parameters. Except for cases when the wrapper itself fails to
load, return value is the return value of that program.

.SH EXAMPLE

Run a newer Firefox browser with fake PulseAudio:

.nf
.sp
	apulse firefox
.fi

.SH AUTHORS

\fBapulse\fR was written by Rinat Ibragimov in 2014-2017.
